HSET vg_sales:000 Rank 1 Name "Wii Sports" Platform Wii Year 2006 Genre Sports Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 82.74 Description "Wii Sports is a 2006 sports simulation video game developed and published by Nintendo for the Wii video game console. The 1.0 (pre-release) version of the game was released in North America along with the Wii on November 19, 2006, and the 1.1 version was released in Japan, Australia, and Europe the following month. Nintendo then changed to selling the 1.1 version in North America a couple months later. It was included as a pack-in game with the console in all territories except Japan, making it the first sports game included with the launch of a Nintendo system since Mario's Tennis for the Virtual Boy in 1995. The game is available on its own as part of the Nintendo Selects collection of games."
HSET vg_sales:001 Rank 2 Name "Super Mario Bros" Platform NES Year 1985 Genre Platform Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 40.24 Description "Super Mario Bros. is a platform game developed and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES). The successor to the 1983 arcade game Mario Bros. and the first game in the Super Mario series, it was first released in 1985 for the Famicom in Japan. Following a limited US release for the NES, it was ported to international arcades for the Nintendo VS. System in early 1986. The NES version received a wide release in North America that year and in PAL regions in 1987."
HSET vg_sales:002 Rank 3 Name "Mario Kart" Platform Wii Year 2008 Genre Racing Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 35.82 Description "Mario Kart Wii is a kart racing game developed and published by Nintendo for the Wii. It is the sixth installment in the Mario Kart series, and was released in April 2008. Like its previous installments, Mario Kart Wii incorporates playable characters from the Mario series, who participate in races on over 30 different race tracks using specialized items to hinder opponents or gain advantages. The game features multiple single-player and multiplayer game modes including two to four person split screen. Online multiplayer was supported until the discontinuation of Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection in May 2014. Mario Kart Wii uses the Wii Remote's motion-controls to provide intuitive and conventional steering controls. Each copy of the game was bundled with the Wii Wheel accessory to augment this feature and mimic a steering wheel."
HSET vg_sales:003 Rank 4 Name "Wii Sports Resort" Platform Wii Year 2009 Genre Sports Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 33 Description "Wii Sports Resort is a 2009 sports simulation video game developed and published by Nintendo for the Wii video game console, and is a sequel to Wii Sports. It is one of the first titles to require the Wii MotionPlus accessory, which was bundled with the game. Wii Sports Resort was first announced at E3 2008 and was released in Japan on June 25, 2009 and in nearly all other regions in the following month. While the game was originally released only as a stand-alone title, it was later bundled with newer Wii consoles alongside Wii Sports."
HSET vg_sales:004 Rank 5 Name "Pokemon Red/Pokemon Blue" Platform GB Year 1996 Genre "Role Playing" Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 31.37 Description "Pokémon Red Version and Pokémon Blue Version are 1996 role-playing video games developed by Game Freak and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy. They are the first installments of the Pokémon video game series. They were first released in Japan in 1996 as Pocket Monsters: Red and Pocket Monsters: Green, with the special edition Pocket Monsters: Blue being released in Japan later that same year. The games were later released as Pokémon Red and Pokémon Blue in North America and Australia in 1998 and Europe in 1999. Pokémon Red and Pokémon Blue combined Red/Green/Blue for release outside of Japan."
HSET vg_sales:005 Rank 6 Name "Tetris" Platform GB Year 1989 Genre Puzzle Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 30.26 Description "Tetris (Russian: Тетрис) is a puzzle video game created by Soviet software engineer Alexey Pajitnov in 1984. It has been published by several companies for multiple platforms, most prominently during a dispute over the appropriation of the rights in the late 1980s. After a significant period of publication by Nintendo, the rights reverted to Pajitnov in 1996, who co-founded the Tetris Company with Henk Rogers to manage licensing."
HSET vg_sales:006 Rank 7 Name "New Super Mario Bros" Platform DS Year 2006 Genre Platform Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 30.01 Description "New Super Mario Bros. is a platform video game developed and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS. It was first released in May 2006 in North America and Japan, and in PAL regions on June 2006. It is the first installment in the New Super Mario Bros. subseries of the Super Mario franchise, and follows Mario as he fights his way through Bowser's henchmen to rescue Princess Peach. Mario has access to several power-ups that help him complete his quest, including the Super Mushroom, the Fire Flower, and the Super Star, each giving him unique abilities. While traveling through eight worlds with a total of 80 levels, Mario must defeat Bowser Jr. and Bowser before saving Princess Peach."
HSET vg_sales:007 Rank 8 Name "Wii Play" Platform Wii Year 2006 Genre Misc Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 29.02 Description "Wii Play is a party video game developed and published by Nintendo for the Wii console. It was released as a launch game for the console in Japan, Europe, and Australia, and was released in North America in February 2007. The game features nine minigames, including a Duck Hunt-esque shooting range, a fishing game, and a billiards game, each of which are designed to showcase the features of the Wii Remote controller."
HSET vg_sales:008 Rank 9 Name "New Super Mario Bros" Platform Wii Year 2009 Genre Platform Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 28.62 Description "New Super Mario Bros. Wii is a 2.5D side-scrolling platform video game developed by Nintendo EAD and published by Nintendo for the Wii. A follow-up to New Super Mario Bros., it was first released in Australia, North America, and Europe in November 2009, followed by Japan a month later. A high-definition port for the Nvidia Shield TV was released in China in December 2017. Like other side-scrolling Super Mario games, the player controls Mario as he travels eight worlds and fights Bowser's henchmen to rescue Princess Peach. New Super Mario Bros. Wii was the first Super Mario game to feature simultaneous cooperative multiplayer gameplay; up to four people can play in cooperative and competitive multiplayer modes, taking control of Mario as well as Luigi and one of two multicolored Toads. The game also introduces 'Super Guide', which allows the player to watch a computer-controlled character complete a level."
HSET vg_sales:009 Rank 10 Name "Duck Hunt Sports" Platform NES Year 1984 Genre Shooter Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 28.31 Description "Duck Hunt is a 1984 light gun shooter video game developed and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) video game console and the Nintendo Vs. System arcade hardware. The game was first released in April 1984, in Japan for the Family Computer (Famicom) console and in North America as an arcade game. It was then released as a launch game for the NES in North America in October 1985, with it also releasing in Europe two years later."
HSET vg_sales:010 Rank 11 Name "Nintendogs" Platform DS Year 2005 Genre Simulation Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 24.76 Description "Nintendogs is a real-time pet simulation video game developed and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS handheld video game console. It was released in Japan, and was later released in: North America, Australia, New Zealand, Europe and other regions. It was originally released in three different versions: Dachshund & Friends, Lab & Friends (Shiba & Friends in Japan) and Chihuahua & Friends. It has been re-released twice, first as a bundled release with a special edition Nintendo DS with a new version called Nintendogs: Best Friends and later as Nintendogs: Dalmatian & Friends."
HSET vg_sales:011 Rank 12 Name "Mario Kart" Platform DS Year 2005 Genre Racing Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 23.42 Description "Mario Kart DS is a 2005 kart racing video game developed by Nintendo EAD Group No. 1 and published by Nintendo. It was released for the Nintendo DS handheld game console in November 2005 in North America, Europe, and Australia, and on December 8, 2005, in Japan. The game was re-released for the Wii U's Virtual Console in North America and PAL regions in April 2015 and in Japan in May 2016."
HSET vg_sales:013 Rank 14 Name "Wii Fit" Platform Wii Year 2007 Genre Sports Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 22.72 Description "Wii Fit is an exergaming video game designed by Nintendo's Hiroshi Matsunaga for the Wii home video game console, featuring a variety of yoga, strength training, aerobics, and balance mini-games for use with the Wii Balance Board peripheral. Matsunaga described the game as a 'way to help get families exercising together'. It has since been adopted by various health clubs around the world, and has previously been used for physiotherapy rehabilitation in children and in nursing homes to improve posture in the elderly."
HSET vg_sales:014 Rank 15 Name "Wii Fit Plus" Platform Wii Year 2009 Genre Sports Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 22 Description "Wii Fit Plus, an enhanced version featuring additional games, activities, and features, was released for the Wii in October 2009. It also garnered positive reception and was a commercial success; as of March 2022, it is the seventh best-selling game on the Wii, with a total of 21.13 million copies sold. Both versions have sold a combined total of 43.8 million copies, making the game one of the best-selling video games of all time."
HSET vg_sales:015 Rank 16 Name "Kinect Adventures" Platform X360 Year 2010 Genre Misc Publisher "Microsoft Game Studios" Global_Sales 21.82 Description "Kinect Adventures! is a sports video game released by Microsoft Game Studios for the Xbox 360. Released in 2010, it is a collection of five adventure and sports minigames and was developed by Good Science Studio, a subsidiary of Microsoft Game Studios. The game utilizes the Kinect motion camera and was offered as a pack-in game with the console.citation need It was unveiled at the 2010 Electronic Entertainment Expo and went on to become the best-selling game on the Xbox 360, selling 24 million units worldwide."
HSET vg_sales:016 Rank 17 Name "Grand Theft Auto V" Platform PS3 Year 2013 Genre Action Publisher "Take-Two Interactive" Global_Sales 21.4 Description "Grand Theft Auto V is a 2013 action-adventure game developed by Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games. It is the seventh main entry in the Grand Theft Auto series, following 2008's Grand Theft Auto IV, and the fifteenth instalment overall. Set within the fictional state of San Andreas, based on Southern California, the single-player story follows three protagonists—retired bank robber Michael De Santa, street gangster Franklin Clinton, and drug dealer and gunrunner Trevor Philips—and their attempts to commit heists while under pressure from a corrupt government agency and powerful criminals. The open world design lets players freely roam San Andreas' open countryside and the fictional city of Los Santos, based on Los Angeles."
HSET vg_sales:018 Rank 19 Name "Super Mario World" Platform SNES Year 1990 Genre Platform Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 20.61 Description "Super Mario World, known in Japan as Super Mario World: Super Mario Bros. 4, is a platform video game developed and published by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES). It was released in Japan in 1990, North America in 1991 and Europe and Australia in 1992. The player controls Mario on his quest to save Princess Toadstool and Dinosaur Land from the series' antagonist Bowser and his minions, the Koopalings. The gameplay is similar to that of earlier Super Mario games: players control Mario or his brother Luigi through a series of levels in which the goal is to reach the goalpost at the end. Super Mario World introduced Yoshi, a dinosaur who can eat enemies, as well as gain abilities by eating the shells of Koopa Troopas."
HSET vg_sales:019 Rank 20 Name "Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day" Platform DS Year 2005 Genre Misc Publisher Nintendo Global_Sales 20.22 Description "Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day!, known as Dr. Kawashima's Brain Training: How Old Is Your Brain? in PAL regions, is an edutainment puzzle video game. It was developed and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo DS. Nintendo has stated that it is an entertainment product inspired by Tohoku University professor Ryuta Kawashima's work in the neurosciences."